$10,000 for a goatee. No. No. I'll take that money and I'll go stay at a hotel while I
wait for it to grow bad. Is that bad for you? It's like a different person. It's like a
stranger man in my house. A stranger man.
So today we have a guest. Our guest today is Liz Red, who I'm married to, but more importantly
she is a founder and has been in tech for a while. And unlike most of the people we talk
to, she's not an engineer. So she does everything else besides that. And she listened to the
podcast that the episode me and Adam had about being a founder.
The startup one. The startup one, right? And she said, it was pretty good, but you guys
didn't talk about any of the good stuff. I was like, okay, then you come on and you talk
about the good stuff. Just so everyone has a little bit of context, give us a little bit
of background on yourself and like how you got into tech and so I'm not an engineer, but
I'm also not originally a tech person or a startup person or a business person. I wanted
to be a therapist. I wanted to be a psychologist, I think because I just wanted therapy. So
I studied that in college and then I ended up kind of working in a couple of research
labs because everybody was like, well, if you want to be a therapist, you need research
experience, you need research experience, whatever. So I did that and ended up liking
that a lot more. So I remember a while there, I was like, I want to be a researcher. And
I did that for enough time, be like four or five years where it was very clear, no, I
do not want to be a researcher. I definitely do not want this. But at that point, it was
pretty hard because I had gone like so far down that path and I was so set up to like
keep going and be in that world. And I really didn't have like, I thought I didn't have
any other skills or experience and I didn't even know people in other industries. I didn't
even know what a startup was. I did this stuff like did not exist in my world. But I had
one friend who like pointed out like, hey, like a lot of the stuff that you like, there's
this thing called like a startup and like you might be a really good fit for it. So I
just started learning a little bit about that, talking to whoever I could talk and then I
whoever I could talk to. And then I convinced myself that I could do it, but I could like,
fully pivot my career. And I did. But it was really hard. And it took a really long time.
And I ended up moving from Miami to New York and trying to find a job and I couldn't. And
so then I had to keep being in that it was like a whole situation.
Yeah. So I think one of the things that's interesting is you had to discover that tech
existed and that startups existed. It's a little different for myself because my family
is in that my dad's a software engineer. So I kind of grew up knowing about all that.
So that's very weird for me to hear like, how could you not know existed? Because it's like
with so in my face all the time. So when you were growing up, like what, like what did
you perceive the world as like, did you not even know that was a thing? Like what was it
more the options for your career didn't even know that a software engineer was a thing.
Don't even get me started on like a product manager or a designer. Like I didn't. This
was also like, I think a little bit earlier. Like I know this world already existed in
like 2011 to 2015, but I think now it's like definitely everywhere. And before it like
it hadn't hit Miami yet. So to me, the world was like doctors and lawyers and small business
owners. And that's it. And then I discovered academia and I was like, Oh, I didn't know
this existed. So it was pretty small. You mentioned like your family. So my family, all
small business owners, all immigrant small business owners. And later in my life, I came
to realize like how important that has been for my psychology in the way I see the world.
I didn't really appreciate it at first. But I think we've talked about how now I appreciate
like, Oh yeah, like I'm comfortable with responsibility. Like I feel weird feeling out of time sheet,
you know, things like that. So if your family is all small business owners, did they? Is
it one of those things where they didn't want you exactly? What were their hopes for you?
Like, do they want you to also be a small business owner or do they want you to get like
a professional job? Because they kind of saw that as like the next level. It was very important
to them that I get like an education, like getting into college, getting a college degree.
That stuff was really important to them. My dad kind of said he like wanted me to take
over the family business, but you know how he is. I think he was just kind of like playing
the character of someone who wants their daughter to do. I don't think he like really wanted that.
And then I think that they wanted me to be like a professional with a title and with job security.
And haven't given me too much of a hard time, but we're not into the idea of I'm gonna switch
careers. I'm gonna quit my job. I'm gonna move to a new city. We're not into the idea of I'm gonna
start my own business, even though that's what they did. But once the ball got rolling, I think
they get it. Yeah. So once you did this, I had to like switch careers, I think in ice and like,
you know, the things that we generally talk about, we talk a lot about engineers or people that are
new to engineering, trying to get their first job, how to bring the tech. And that's discussed
to death, I think. And there's a lot of challenges with that. But I imagine, do you think it's even
harder as a non-engineer to get into tech? Like, what was that process like? I wouldn't know how to
compare, but it was really hard, but not impossible. And I think there's two things I took away from
it. So one, like, you always have something like you always have a way to like fit yourself into
whatever the new thing is that you want, even though it's not straight up to tech. So for me,
I like looked at the experiences I'd had, and I found a way to like kind of shape it into a
narrative that made sense for why I want to be able to start up. So like the lab that I worked in
was brand new. The professor I had worked for had just moved down to the university where I was,
and we had to set everything up from scratch. So it was like me and another professor and him
for a really long time. So it's kind of like a startup where I'm like the third employee.
And I had to set everything up by myself, and we grew the lab from just me to like 20 to 30 people,
and I was involved in all of that. And so if I tell you the story in that way, all of a sudden,
it seems like really, really relevant. So that's one thing you can always just kind of understand
like this new industry you're trying to go into and find ways of like seeing your own story
in a way that fits. Another thing is I was kind of constrained, and you know, maybe this is something
people should think about, and maybe it's okay for that first like move into the industry. So
I really couldn't make progress in anything that wasn't healthcare related or psychology related,
because it needed to kind of fit in that way. Like I just I tried, I tried, and I really only
clicked with startups that were doing something related to healthcare, and that valued that.
And that was a constraint. It was also, you know, fine by me. And the other constraint was I
couldn't just like get whatever job I wanted to start up. And that helped. I was clear on that,
right? I was like, I just need to get into a startup. That's all I need to do. I don't have
to have like the perfect job. I don't need to have a cool job. So when I joined Bright Health,
which is where I met you, and that was my first startup, I just did customer support. And then
I worked my way into where I am today. And I can talk about that too. But yeah, I mean, I could
tell a little bit of that from my side. So I met Liz at a startup as a company there. It was just
me and one other person to start. And we started after the first like maybe like 10 months or so.
It was I think it was still under a year. We started hiring more people. It was a company that did
transportation for medical situations like non-emergency transportation. The people needed to get to
chemo appointments and get to surgery. They didn't have access to transportation. The hospital would
pay for it, but it would be fulfilled by like Uber or like something that was non-emergency.
And we did have a pretty heavy support burden because we were transporting older people without
like less depth with technology. So there were always things going wrong or like slightly wrong
with the rides. People call in and we had like a support burden. So as we scaled, we needed to
have more customer support people. So that's all we were hiring for. We were just hiring for
two more support people. And Liz was one of the people that interviewed for it. We decided to
hire her. I was pretty excited because she came across really competent. It definitely in hindsight,
like I think it was clear that she would have always outgrown that role. But we did hire her and
then when she came in, that was like her foot in the door. And it was clear that she was using this
support role to get what she actually wanted, which was like a bigger role at the company.
And that was also the day we met the day of my interview. Yeah. And I also almost didn't take
the initial phone call with the founder. It was like a very, because the way he reached out was
kind of weird. And I was a little weirded out. And so it was like a very, very last minute decision
to like pick up the phone. And that hates this like,
let me explain. So Liz is like playing it down a little bit. But our founder was really weird,
really, really weird dude. And most people could tell right away when they spoke to him. So I
think that's what happened, right? You were kind of weirded out? Yeah, I got in the psychology world,
you call it the access to tingle. I got the access to tingle. And what's the access to tingle?
You can't just say it and not explain it. All right, it's a weird, it's kind of like if
you know, you know, kind of thing. It's a weird feeling you get when you're around somebody who
probably has a personality disorder. And the diagnostic thing access to is like a personality
disorder. So we call it the access to tingle in the field. So Liz got that and almost,
she almost didn't take the call. And then I would have never met in my whole life as it is now,
which I love wouldn't exist. So I always freak out when I think about how small of a choice that
you would use a bullet off for no reason. Like you probably were just like being lazy. I would.
Yeah, I was running late because I'm always running late to everything. But I also feel
embarrassed about running late. And so I was like, I'd rather just bail on the call than show up to
the call late. Yeah. So lesson of the story, don't bail on stuff. It could literally ruin a great
life. So stop bailing everyone. Yeah, I'm like annoyed at you somehow. I'm annoyed that you're
someone that is late to things and potentially almost ruined my life because of that. All right.
Okay. Yeah. So you were saying you got so what was like, so you finally got a job in tech. Again,
not the role is just it was a customer support role. It's not the role you were looking for.
But yeah, well, how'd you take it from there? Yeah. And just going back a little bit, the last
like piece of advice that I would give is you can like read about the industry you want to go into
and research it a little bit and understand it. Not because you're really going to understand
it until you're in it. But just so you have like at least a common language that you're
speaking going into it. And I think that really helped a lot. I think it was those three things
coming together that helped me actually make the pivot. But yeah, once I was in ride health,
doing customer support, these things were just very like instinctive and like very clear to me.
Like very clear to me, like I didn't join this five person startup where I'm getting paid nothing
to do customer support. Like it's very, very obvious, very obvious that it was a situation
where a control free just needed to take control and like fix a bunch of stuff and set up a bunch
of stuff. And if you did that, you become indispensable and you get a lot of options.
And so I just got to work on that immediately. Like I would do my customer support stuff,
but I would be setting everything up so that, you know, I was creating systems that other people
could use started working with you immediately and discovered product management, which was
awesome. It was so fun. It was very like, very pure, right? It was like, I would get a customer
support thing. And like you deal with it, but the way to actually fix it is to like change
something about the product. And so then I started working with you on some product specs. I didn't
know what I was doing was a product spec because I didn't know what a product spec was. But
that's what it ended up being. I impressed you with a float chart. Do you remember that?
Yes, I do remember that. Well, I think I technically showed you the tool, right?
It was whimsical whimsical. You did. And I love whimsical now. Yeah.
Yeah. So we were getting a lot of this complex, important cases. And Liz was handling them all.
So she came back to us with, you know, this tool whimsical, like let's you diagram like
a float charge, things like that. She came back to us with an idea for an automated
system that could like that can handle some of these complex flows. And yeah, like I remember
thinking like, wow, this is like really well thought through it like handles all the edge cases in
the places where we can't handle it like nicely ejects. It's not too annoying for the user. So
yeah, I think I remember thinking, you know, like really good instincts and thought through
this really thoroughly. And again, remember, because from our point of view, we had just hired a
customer support person to answer the phones, we didn't really expect this level like this.
So no one told you to do that. No one asked you to do it. It was something that kind of you just
saw and grabbed. Right. Because I had like a master plan, like little did you know,
I had it. I had just like snuck my way in and I had like a plan for what I was going to do there.
And if I'm being like totally honest, I don't see any other reason to ever join a startup. Like,
I do not. I don't get it. Like, I don't understand why you would just like go join,
especially a very or because we say startup, but like I'm not talking about like a hundred
percent series. I'm talking about like, there's five people, there's 10 people.
I don't get why you would ever do that to yourself unless it's because you're going to take advantage
of it in this way. You want to pivot careers. You're very early on and you want to get a ton of
responsibility, which I think you've pointed out, Dax, or you want like you're really going to like
get something out of it. And you're not going into it expecting that anybody is going to tell you
what to do. Like, that's the opportunity. The opportunity is no one's going to tell you what
to do. And you go and figure it out. And all of a sudden you're like the most indispensable
person in the company and you work your way into whatever job title you want. And then your next job
is that career that you basically chosen for yourself. If you're not going to do that, like,
don't I don't know what you're doing at it. Don't go to a startup because also you're going to
annoy people like me, right? Because you're like, oh, like what do I do? Like, where's the docs? And
I'm going to be like, why are you here? So just only go into a startup if that's how you're going
to approach it is my hot take. It's a it's such a huge opportunity to lever up. Like, so you
literally had no experience in tech. And after that job, you were set up to basically get any role
you wanted. Yeah. So I do this is really funny. So I entered during customer support and I exited
his head of product. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. So it's just like the opportunity is so there because when
things are early, there's just so much it's like a land grab. It's like the startup itself
is trying to be early as something and grab a bunch of land. But similar to like internally,
that applies as well. Like you can go and grab stuff because no one has grabbed it yet. And the
way I always phrase it because I find it funny is the whole thing with startups is when you're
trying to get a job there, you're trying to trick someone to giving you more responsibility than you
should have. And you probably don't know how to do half of it, but you're gonna someone's gonna
pay you maybe not a lot, but you're gonna get paid something to do to do that. And then
once you've done it once, you have that experience forever. And that's how you like launch your career.
I think this path is like a fantastic path. And I think it gets you really, really, really far ahead
compared to some traditional paths. And if you look at, let's say someone that, you know,
knew they're going to go into tech, you know, went to school for for X amount of years and got
like an entry level position already at an established company, you can only go up so fast. Like the
best person, maybe he's going to move up like 20% faster than like average person. But when you
join a startup, you can like skip four or five years of your career. If you, if you do take advantage
of like, you know, working really hard and being able to operate on your own without someone telling
you what to do. Yeah, I think that's the key thing. I mean, everybody works hard and everybody suffers,
but it's like the part where you're okay with taking responsibility. And you're okay with like
and the ambiguity of like, what do I do? What do I work on? I think that's the key part. Yeah. So,
yeah. So what happened after you left that first, first role, would you were there for like two
and a half years? So I was at Red Health, first startup, started customer support, did like a
bunch of stuff in between and eventually ended up in a head of product role. So I was head of
product experts, head of engineering, and then we started dating. So that's surprise now one. But
after after I left Red Health, yeah, I joined this other company and this was like March of 2020,
March, April 2020. So the pandemic has just hit everybody was working from home. And then these
like digital healthcare startups were like all the rage like the hymns and hers and the row and
like everybody was like taking some thing in medicine and like creating a startup around it.
And I went to one of these places that was focused on psychiatry and it's kind of embarrassing to
like say that now and to talk about it because there's so much like at this point, there's like
so much negative press with that like so everybody thinks cerebral and it's that was a disaster and
it's like so embarrassing. And to be honest, like a lot of the shady things that are in the news are
like kind or right when it comes to this space. So I did not enjoy my time there at all for like
so many different reasons. But I got the idea for my current company, which is great. So I think
I ended up being there for maybe like less than a year. Was it really less than a year? Oh my god,
that felt like forever. Yes. So my role there was, so okay, just picture like an online psychiatry
practice. So just like a regular doctor's practice, but instead of in person, it's online. So you
have your patients and they wanted to create a product that the patients could use. But you also
have like doctors and nurses and admin and you need a product that they can use to actually see
the patients and provide the treatment. And that was the product that I was in charge of. And what
I learned is that first of all, building that product, no matter how small and minimal you're
trying to keep it, is a beast. So if that's not the focus of your company, you should never
build that. But second, there's no good options in the market. So I like really no good options.
Like this category of software is horrid. So I understand why people end up building their own
thing. It's because what's in the market is like so crappy. And so I thought this was a great
opportunity because I'm an idiot. And then I realized how hard it was going to be. But
yeah, that was the idea for booming. I mean, we can talk about it a little bit. So it's
build versus buy thing. It comes up across any business and engineers sort of think about this,
non-engineers are thinking about it as well. So in that case, the process was you guys did try
to buy something, right? You guys went and evaluated everything that was out there.
We actually did what most people do, which is we did a combination approach. So we took some things
off the shelf. And then we created our own tooling on top of that to just kind of like compensate for
the things that we needed that it didn't have. So what most people actually do is they'll buy
a bunch of different things and they'll glue them together. And or they will also build their own
little tool to compensate for like all the issues that the tools that they bought have. So it's sort
of this like hodgepodge approach. We just glue stuff together. Yeah. And do that work well? No.
And why not? Well, because when you glue a bunch of stuff together, you're just,
you're never going to get a good outcome. Like we love APIs. We love integration. But when it
comes to a tool like this, that's running your business. It's your operations tool. It's like how
everything runs and works. It's just that there's always going to be like something stupid, like
a date of birth got updated in this tool, but not in this tool. Now you're working with two different
types of information. There's always going to be reporting as a nightmare. I think we've talked
about this, but the people who end up doing the reporting are the ones that know exactly how much
this doesn't work, because everything is going to end up showing up in the reporting as like,
why do I have like five instances of this patient? Like, why does this look so weird? Like, why did
this weird thing happen? Like, you know, all the ways that people are compensating for the
shortcomings of the tool, if you do the reporting. So it's just for a tool like this for the thing
that operates your business that runs your business, you need something that's greater than the sum
of its parts. You can't just be like, well, I need to schedule something. So I'm going to use
this scheduling tool, and I need to take some notes. So I'm going to use this charting tool,
and I'm going to glue them together, because now I have the capabilities of scheduling
and of charting. Like, yeah, you have the capabilities of scheduling and of charting,
but when it comes to like a nice workflow and like clean operations, you need something where
it's greater than the sum of its parts. Like, when something happens with scheduling,
like this other thing happens and it all kind of flows nicely. So that's just like the beginning of
why I think that doesn't work. But yeah, I think going back to the company a little bit more. So I
think you you like set a little bit politely, but I like recall from my memory, Liz's entire time
there was a disaster. I remember just every week, there was just like some other thing going wrong,
and just kind of all enforcers, like it wasn't like the business was getting hit by a bunch of
externally just internally. It just could be like, you know, we're just a lot of things going wrong.
And it got to the point where it was it was like bothering me. Like I was spending my time
thinking about it being like, that's so stupid. Like they should do it like this. And I was getting
frustrated. And I'm like, I got to the point where I was like, I want to go talk to people there and
tell them what to do. So yeah, like, you know, months and months of this just was not working
well. And I think at some point, I was just like, why are you doing this? Like, what are we,
what are we like getting out of it? I'm going to spend a, you know, you can spend a couple years
here. Even if it's successful, if all this like pain is is worth it, and then produce something
successful, it's not going to be like a life changing amount of money or anything. Maybe you
get set up for like a better role next. So I do think I remember me saying that you should go
try to start your own thing. Right. Is that how you remember it? Yep, it was your idea. Yeah,
I remember so annoyed by I was like, we need to find a way out of this situation.
Yeah, we're a dinosaur barbecue in Brooklyn. Oh, yeah. So how was that like, how was that
thought process of deciding to leave and start your own thing? I kind of felt like I definitely
wanted to leave because a company was a disaster and it was a whole thing. But yeah, I definitely
wanted to leave and I just couldn't think of what the next thing would be. Like, I couldn't
imagine like what company I was going to work for next and what role I was going to have next
because anything I could think of kind of felt like just going around in circles,
like just doing the same thing all over again. And I think when you get to that point, like,
that's probably a pretty good signal to go and start your own thing, especially if that's
something that you've always wanted to do because yeah, any other job I went and got like,
it wouldn't just been the same thing as before. And, you know, we had a good idea with Boomi.
We weren't like really grasping for ideas. Although I remember at the time we were exploring a
couple of different things, which I forget now, we were thinking about like a finding a therapist
type business or tool or something like that. But yeah, I got really excited about Boomi.
I think that ultimately, like, I am an operations person. That's how I think. That's what I like.
But because it's the year 2023, I'm an operations person with access to an engineer.
And so the way that I express all of that is like through products that support the operations of
the business. So the type of product that Boomi is was like a really good fit for that. And
it's like one of the hardest products you could choose. And I like kind of knew that, but I was
like ignoring it. And now I really understand that. So it's been just massively painful,
but also really fun. Because selfishly, like, I like thinking about these problems. And like,
I like working through this stuff. And like, I find it really fun. Sometimes I feel a little
guilty. Like, oh, maybe I should have like, because this is like my business and my livelihood. And
I should have picked something that was easier and more straightforward. But I'm like enjoying
how hard it is. So I feel a little weird about that. But yeah, I mean, it's like a massive product.
It's vertical SaaS. So you have to build like all the features and it's in health care, which is
one of the most highly regulated industries. And that's just the beginning of what makes it hard.
Yeah. But the good side of that is if you, and that's why I tell people all the time, like,
I think a lot of advice gets mixed up together and applied the wrong way. You do need to build
simple products. You need to like start small and grow and like learn and do all that. But I think
people can flate that with just picking like a very simple ambition. So I think with this,
it's like a very ambitious product, very difficult. The upside, the downside of that is like very
hard and it takes a long time and as pain can be painful. But the upside is like, you're really
not going to run into a competitor. Like, who is willing, whatever pain you had to go through,
someone else has to go through as well. And at the end of that, like, you can sit on,
like, let's say, took you like two or three years to get it to a place where it's usable.
Someone else more or less has to go through that same pain. So yeah, it's hard to create things of
value. Well, something is valuable because like a lot of input went into it. If something could be
built in one month, you know, it has one month of value behind it. So yeah, I generally don't mind
stuff being really hard. And I think I've changed my mind on this over time. I think I definitely
initially was like, I would kind of see like these simple little tools that make money. And I would
think like, that's what I should be doing. I should be making like 10 of those. But there are people
that find success with that. But motivation is a big thing. And if you're trying to, if you're
going for something way, way, way more ambitious, like, it's just a lot more fun to work on much,
much bigger problems. And even an SST, like we're always thinking about like how there's like a
current market we're focused on, but like, what's the next one? What's the next one? Like, what's
the craziest version of what this all could look like? And that excitement, I think is,
is helpful in keeping you motivated. Yeah. So let's talk about this for a little bit,
because there's an interesting like me and you dynamic here. So we were talking about this the
other night, but I'm somebody that I can only do something if it's going to be like the best
and the most exciting and the most challenging to the point where you can like make fun of me for
being like extremely delusional about where I think boomy is going to go. And we talked about
it for the first time the other night and you were like, no, like, I'd never thought that that's
where that would go. And I'm like, yeah, no, like we'll replace the salesforce tower. Like,
that'll be like, but it's important for me because if I don't think that way, like, I'm not going to
do it. Like, we joke about this, but this is the way I am with like preparing dinner. Like,
your approach has been like, Liz, just make it simple so that you can do it more consistently,
like just this and that. And then I try that and I'm like, I just don't want to do it if it's not
going to be like really great and perfect and delicious and beautiful and like going to take a
little bit of time. So I need that to be motivated. I need that to do things. I like need it to be
like the highest version of itself or whatever. But I felt bad about that for a long time because
I was like, what if, you know, I want to do this grand thing and in trying to do the grand thing,
like, I totally flop and we could have been spending our time on something more straightforward that
would like make us more money and all of that. And yeah, I think you've kind of come around to
this way of thinking a little bit more, but I used to think that the ideas you had around just
make like a little simple tool and make a ton of money off of it. I used to think that I used to
go bad about not taking that approach, basically. Yeah, I think the thing you described, I've said
this before, like, I'm definitely a founder persona. But I think you are even more so a
founder persona, specifically for the thing that you described, I kind of like delusional. Yeah,
yeah, but it's important. It's going to pour in trade. And I feel like for me, I kind of had to
learn it. And I realized at some point, I was kind of artificially capping my ambition,
because at some somewhere in the back of my head, I was like, the thought was something like,
who am I to be the one that does something like that? Like kind of overly practical to the point
of like maybe being cynical or like pessimistic. And I think over time, I just started realize like,
even the people that have done like the craziest things, they're actually not that different.
Like, of course, like, I'm not going to, you know, be like a crazy NBA player, right? Like,
there's just like some people like truly gifted and special. But for a lot of the things that
are within my realm of like in my space and kind of stuff that I could do, a lot of people that
work on that stuff are just normal and it's kind of decided to do it. So I think it took me a while
to think more that way. And I think I've landed somewhere in the middle. You much more naturally
think that way. Yeah. And I also feel like, who am I to think that I can do that? And I find I find
this trait that I have like really embarrassing. Like, it's embarrassing, right? Because if you
don't get there, then it's like, yeah, like, of course, you didn't get there. Like, I can't believe
you thought you're going to get there in the first place. But I'm feeling more comfortable,
like saying it out loud. Like, there was a time where I would never share this with anybody,
like not even you. I would just silently be like, I think it's really going to like work out for me.
Like, I think I'm going to like, I think I'm going to replace it before. So I both have this
like delusion and then the self consciousness and just the way it is.
Yeah, yeah. So I mean, I've talked about it before, but obviously when you are a founder,
some days you wake up crazy motivates and as you wake up, think you're doing everything wrong.
So we were in a phase where we were working on like this pretty complicated table,
just like, you know, filtering, sorting, all that stuff, grouping, views, all that.
And it was already pretty complicated despite being MVP. And I was like,
can this really be sometimes you like step back and you get a sense of like,
I'm working on a table. Like, how is this the thing that's going to get us to like,
all these crazy dreams and everything? And I just couldn't see it. I just couldn't see how
like continuing on this path like gets to the place where we needed to go.
Yeah. I think that was that was my head was that.
Yeah. And then the interesting thing is that you came to me and we both,
I was also feeling it like I was also feeling like a lack of motivation and some insecurity
around that. And so when you brought it to me, I was like, my like, my insecurity is like,
correct. Like, I don't know what I'm doing. And I don't know if this is the right thing to work
on. And what if like, we are putting in all this effort building this stupid table and that like,
amounts to nothing. Like, I was feeling the same things that you were feeling. And so when you brought
it to me, it was like a confirmation. And I was like, Oh, no. And I think it's interesting that we
took it to a place where we just immediately started like fantasizing, fantasizing and negotiating,
right? It was like our brain needed to like find an escape hatch from this thing that we were stuck
on. And we started fantasizing about like little products that we could build and like things we
could turn boomy into so that it wasn't boomy anymore. And we were just fantasizing about ways
to give up. And it kind of made us feel better because it made us feel like we had an escape route.
And but they didn't feel good. Like, I knew it was wrong. It just didn't feel good. And then I think
I took a step back and I literally googled, I literally googled like how to not give up.
Is that how you found that program? Yeah. Yeah. And like the first search thing was that
Paul Graham essay titled, I think it's titled like how to not give up or something like that.
And I read it and I was like, and I mean, the takeaway is like, if you just don't give up,
you'll be successful. All you have to do is just not give up. And I was like, that's right. And so
then I messaged you that whole thing about how, okay, we were clearly just like fantasizing and
we're not going to give up. And here's all of the good things that we already have. And if we have
all of those good things, there's no way we don't turn that into something eventually.
And ever since that day, I've given myself some version of that like once a week.
Because it's really hard. Yeah, it's funny because like you did it. I think it literally said like
if you if you don't die, you get rich. So it's something like that. As long as you don't die,
you get rich. Of course, you like that angle. Yeah, I know. I love money. I'm only doing this
for the money. Yeah, it's as stupid and simple as that sounded. And as cliche is like quoting a
program essay is like that did have a massive impact because it is really that stupid. And it's
it's easy to forget that it's that simple because in the moment where you're like, I don't know if
it's going to go anywhere, like may should give up and start over, you're forgetting that where you
currently are as a result of one year of work, whatever it is. And if you give up and start over,
you're just starting down that same path again from the beginning. And you can easily just end up
back in the same spot. But now you've wasted another year. So with all this stuff,
as long as you just picked a big enough market, just if you just spend enough time in it and just
continue to like tweak and learn and try stuff, if you can just do that for like longer than other
people, eventually you would just have to hit on something that works. Because this stuff takes
time, right? It's the work is figuring out what to build. And everything before probably market fit
just feels like just completely unknown, like you're out there trying to figure it out. But that's
the actual work. Everything after that is like pretty basic. But the actual work in the miracles,
like being able to spend that time with ambiguity and figuring out what figuring out just something
that that can work. So ejecting out of that just ejecting back into the same exact environment just
from the beginning. So again, very, very simple. But that program essay did because it like,
all right, again, maybe just because like the get rich part really, really spoke to me. But
yeah, it did like snap me out of that. And I haven't felt that way even remotely close feeling that
way since then across everything I'm doing. So yeah, it was an important moment. So the first time
being a founder where you're literally the one responsible, I think you had some expectations of
what it was going to be like, I think it's very different than what you expected. So yeah, do you
want to talk about some of that? Yeah, the biggest difference is I've always been in like small
environments, like small number of people, three people, five people, 10 people, things like that.
Always been good with ambiguity, giving myself work, figuring out what needs to be done and doing it.
But I didn't appreciate how even then, even when I thought that there was ambiguity,
there wasn't. There was already something, right? There was already like research studies that had
protocols. There was already like a business, like by the time I joined right health, we had
customers, we had a business, like it was clear, like things were clear. And I just did not,
I was not prepared for what it feels like to be staring at a blank page and to just have to figure
it out all completely on your own. And I wasn't prepared for like how lonely that is, like I've
always been in these environments that are really chaotic. And I would see founders and leaders
struggle to deal with the chaos. And I'm very, very, very good at managing chaos. Like dream job
is I coordinate an emergency room or something like that, standing in the middle of it and like,
like a kitchen at a high end restaurant. Exactly. Yeah. So if there's like a bunch of stuff going
on and it's super chaotic, I think of myself as somebody who would do really well there.
It'd be stressful that I'd figure it out. And you know, I like that. There was just nothing,
like no chaos, nothing, like no emails in my inbox, no Slack messages, no co-workers,
in the beginning, no customers, just nothing, just like a whole day where my calendar is blank,
which I'm sure to people who are like, they have a lot of meetings right now. That sounds amazing.
Yeah. But also it's like, what do you do with what the hell do you do with yourself? It's like
too much freedom. It kind of feels like the bottom is like ripped out from under you and
you're just like falling into an abyss. It's like a very it was honestly like a scary feeling for me.
And I'm sure there's people who they actually wouldn't have a hard time with that. But for my
particular temperament, very difficult, very, very difficult. And so you know, the further we go,
the more things that exist, the easier it gets from me. So we get customers that's easier. I have
people to talk to. I have like a way of looking at this and reducing degrees of freedom and things
like that. It gets easier and easier, but I just wasn't expecting like the quiet to hit me so hard.
And it's just hard. Like, you don't know where you're going or what you're doing. You're getting
no feedback. You're getting no inputs. There's no coworker to be like, you're being annoying or
you're being great or I love what you did or what you did sucks. Like there's just there's nothing,
there's like nothing, nothing, nothing. And so you just keep plugging away. And this thing is
like going into the abyss. And you're like, and yeah, I mean, it's gotten better, but I still struggle
with it. Adam talked about this a little bit in the startup episode, but it wasn't like the thing.
And for me, for where I am right now, this is like the thing, like this is like the struggle.
Yeah, yeah, it's easy to underestimate how much input most of us are getting all day.
Even if you're an early stage company, like there's just stuff usually happening and coming in your
way. And it might be annoying things like maybe things you don't want to deal with, but at least
it's something gives you structure. You're like, I have an email, I have to reply. You have to do
this. Like something is telling you what to do. There's like some signal telling you what to do. And
it is like, it's really easy to underestimate how shocking it is when you literally like nothing
exists besides you doing stuff, you're giving yourself your own input and trying to make stuff
happen. Yeah, building your own momentum. Like startups only get easier over time because you just
have more knowledge, more stuff happening. Like, like you said, degrees of freedom in the beginning,
like you can do literally anything, like you have 10 potential things you could do. They all seem
equally important. You have no idea which one makes sense. And as as it goes on, it's annoying
because you want to do 10 things, but you are forced to do like one or two. And that's annoying.
That's the environment that most of us are used to. But it actually is kind of a blessing because
it's you're kind of being told, okay, this is what you need to do. And it's clear. So very different
early on. And that's what I was saying earlier, like, yeah, it's a miracle to get to a place
where you have like product market fit and you have customers and everything because those
initials phases are where people get filtered out because they're just so like weirdly hard and
it's all like internal mental challenges. Nothing really like external. It's not really about like
building a product or making a product look and feel good. It's it's all these like internal
struggles you need to need to conquer. Yeah, yeah, in this time, it's funny. I got really
into reading these books that were like aimed at writers and that all that stuff weirdly ended
up being like very helpful because I think it kind of is like that, right? You're like staring
at a blank page. It's just you alone all day trying to figure out how to structure your day,
how to like bring this thing that's inside of you to life. I found it weirdly like comforting
and helpful to kind of read through some of that stuff to kind of get me through this phase. And
I'm still in it, but I feel like we're at the tail end. Like I think also like how long it has
taken is not what I was expecting. And we kind of get into this all the time because you're like,
I don't know what the hell you were expecting. Like things take forever. But I really have this
narrative in my head that if it's going to work, it works fast and that things are supposed to be
going really fast. And if they're not going really fast, then you're doing something wrong.
You're never going to be successful. Give up now, you total loser. Like that's the
that's the narrative that I have in my head. And I've found it hard to just like stop worrying
about that piece of it. And I've found it hard to like tell myself like the type of product that
we're building and the way that we chose to capitalize the company means that things are going to be
slower. It doesn't mean that it's wrong or that it's not going to work out or that, you know, we're
doing something massively wrong. Yeah, and it's funny because we we have this discussion a lot because
it took some convincing for you to believe that it like this going this slow or like things feeling
this slow is the norm. But if you like sit down and like go if I think we sat down and I thought
through like, okay, all the people that I know, whether they're like in it right now or whether
they've already been successful, like how long did it actually take them? It takes a very long time
and people, it's like very easy to forget that. So with SST. So I joined, I think it's going to be
two years two years ago, Frank and Jay already been working on it for like four years before then
three or four years, something like that. So from my point of view, I'm like, I basically started
at the beginning and like even then it's taking forever. They had already been working on it for
like years and years and years before that and they had they've been working to other companies
before that as well. And it does take a very long time and they're both very, very good at what they
do because of all this time it's gone, gone by and and what they've learned in that. And that's
the norm. Like everyone I know is like even people that are massive successful, it's like it's taken
10 years or so for them to really get to a place where things are humming. I think we get distracted
by the weird times of the last five years where certain companies like rocketed to
but not evaluation in like under two years. I think we're hearing that left and right.
A lot of those were fake, like not real. Some of those are probably real, but the reality is is like
it's just not the norm. The norm is it just takes a very long time.
Yeah, I know. I mean, I don't know, maybe.
So not fully convinced.
I was so not fully convinced. Yeah, exactly. It's just it's hard because you don't have a
guarantee, right? Like you go to med school, you go to grad school. It's going to take a long
time. That's years, years of your life, like five, six, seven years. But you know, if you follow this
path and you like do these things, you get this outcome. The startup isn't like that. We could be
doing all of this and it could turn into nothing and you feel this like opportunity cost of what
if I had done something else. Of course, there's like a totally different way of looking at it,
which I think you are very good at looking at it in a different, more helpful way. But
that's kind of the fear. It's like you just have no guarantee that you pour all of this stuff into
it. But what if I'm pouring the wrong stuff and over time, it just I spent 10 years on it and nothing.
Anyways, you have a much healthier perspective on that.
Well, I just think about what's the worst case scenario? Yeah, the opportunity cost thing is there,
but the worst case scenario is you spend a bunch of years doing something a lot harder than what
most people do. So if you spend five years on it versus someone spending five years at a company,
you exert yourself a lot more over those five years. And the reward for that is you've learned
a lot more. You understand a lot more about how the world works. You just are just become a more
capable person at that time. So the worst case outcome is you kind of spend a bunch of time
training really hard, and that maybe sets you up for something really incredible as your next thing.
I've always looked at my career as I just constant set up for the next thing. I think I'm getting
to a phase where I think I'm like doing this stuff that I was training for. But yeah, I've
everything I've worked my official career maybe is 11 years now. I've only worked at very small
companies. I've only founded companies have been at very small companies. Every single one of them
has failed. None of them has actually worked. Maybe save for one, but that's one where I joined
much later and wasn't like, I don't even count that one. So I've only had a career of failures.
But I've gotten to a place in my like understanding and ability that's well, well beyond what most
people have, just because of those experiences. And I don't like I'm not sitting here looking back
at that and feeling like I think people imagine like, there's going to be a moment where my stuff
fails and I'm going to feel terrible and look back on it and all feels wasted. Just being in a
situation where I think that is literally a situation I'm in, I don't look back on that. It just doesn't
feel that way at all. Because you just continue to get excited about the next thing and you bring
all the skills with you. And then it just gets easier every single time. Like I remember
I used to work a lot harder, I think, like I would like exert myself a lot more to just get
worse results. And I can like sit back and think about where my energy would go to before and like
how little of an outcome I would get and think about now where I spend my time and like how much
bigger of an outcome. So it's the same thing. Like if I just keep going, eventually the outcome
becomes a thing that is big enough to be the thing that I want. So again, it's just time,
just like knowing that nothing great happens without a lot, a lot of time behind it.
That's the thing I've like struggled to internalize because I ate up all these other stories about
how it's so fast. But the other thing is it's just like, it's just like embarrassing. Like it's
embarrassing to be like, I'm going to phone this company, you guys. And they're like, hey Liz,
like how's it going? And you're like, yeah, like no updates since the last time. That's embarrassing.
It's embarrassing to think that, you know, at the end it won't work out and everybody will be like,
yeah. So I don't know, I feel like you're very good at dealing with embarrassment or like not
having it be a factor. Yeah, have you seen our YouTube channel? Yeah, can you tell and like talk
a little bit about how you just like, this is not like a factor for you at all embarrassment?
It definitely, I wouldn't say it's not a factor. And I definitely know exactly what you're talking
about because I like, you know, definitely earlier in my career, it was like more of an impact.
I think I was always so motivated by proving people wrong. I was like make up fake enemies
in my head. I would pretend like someone cared about what I was doing way more and I wanted to
prove them wrong. They probably didn't really care that much. So that kind of like pushed me forward.
At some point, I mean, this everyone's heard this quote Nikita Beers quote where I forgot what it
is. It's about like literally the thing that's stopping from getting to the next level is like
being worried about looking bad or like being embarrassed. And again, these are just filters I
would talk about things that filter people out. And some part of that clicked for me where I was like,
oh yeah, if I just randomly do stuff that's more embarrassing, I'm like now in the 1% of people
because 99% of people would have just not done it. So now I get excited to do things that are
embarrassing. I'm like, this is an edge, it feels like an edge for me. I definitely remember it like
YouTube's a great example because when I first was hearing about the YouTube stuff,
and I would see all like the stupid ass thumbnails and I would be like, that's so embarrassing.
Like my friends who know me are going to see that and they're going to be like, what are you
doing? Like that's not who you are. And I was like rationalizing all this stuff in my head about
why I would never do that. And then over time, I like started to learn a little bit more and I
like rationalize it in like a stupidly intellectual way where I was like, I'm above that I'm going to
do that. But really, it was just me being scared. Eventually it just sort of makes, I sort of understand
it and it sort of makes sense. And it really flipped to a place where I'm like, now we just
genuinely enjoy it. It doesn't even feel embarrassing. It just feels really funny. It feels really
creative. So yeah, a lot of times it doesn't work, you know, but the thing we talk about all the time
is everything we try to do, we try to, it just has to have the potential of being a massive hit.
Doing the conservative bet is not worth it because the reality is you need to try a hundred things
and one of those things will work. If the one thing that works is a conservative bet, like you
didn't really get anything out of it. So yeah, I'm just like really now excited about trying all
these crazy things. And like I said, my whole career has been a failure in a way. So at this point,
I'm not like worried about it. I'm still in a great, great place. So it kind of doesn't,
yeah, I just internalize it. It just doesn't really matter. I think everyone kind of feels that way
when they get old, they're also like, we all know like the older people in our family that just like
don't give a shit about what anyone thinks. So I think it just kind of is like a natural thing
that happens. Yeah, that part about dragging your competitors that are embarrassment really clicked
for me. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. So once we do boomy marketing, it's going to be really embarrassing.
Yeah, I'm excited for that. I think the other night, I told you like, hey, by the way, you're
definitely in charge of doing marketing. And that's something that even a year ago, like I would
have never said because I wanted to like really be in control of it and be in control of like
being perceived in a certain way. And now that I've worked my ass off, the only thing that I care
about is that people know that it exists. Yeah, that it works. But no, it exists. I literally
just want people. No, I know it works. No, no, not the product. I mean, that the marketing works.
It doesn't matter what it is. Exactly. Exactly. Exactly. Exactly. All I care about is that people
know that it exists. Like, I can't just have worked that hard on this thing that I know is
awesome for it to just fail because people just don't know it exists. So I'm definitely willing to
do like literally anything, like anything. Yeah. And that's just what I'm talking about.
Like it just it's just a natural transition where like you'd like had all these thoughts
and like opinions about it. But you get to a place where you're like, I will do anything that
that works. If it works, I'll do it. I don't care what it is. That's the other thing about
being a founder is you get so like, like religious, I will really like, I will pray to God. Like,
I will give this offering to God is at this temple. Like, this help me. I'm trying so hard.
When we were visiting my parents, my mom got away as this. What is it? The idol?
Actually. Yes. The goddess of wealth. Prosperity. Prosperity. And and and what she gave me options.
She was like, you could get like this one or that one. And I was like, yeah, the prosperity one,
for sure. Like, give it here. And now it's on her shelf and then let's pray to it.
Yeah. Whatever we'll do whatever it takes. Whatever it takes. Yeah, it's funny. This reminds me of
Frank a lot because Frank is like, most of the time people know Frank is like, he's just working.
He's like very like focused on his work. And it's like seems kind of serious.
So when we started doing all those weird YouTube stuff, in my head, I couldn't really picture him
outside of like, it's always funny, but I couldn't really picture it. But he's like the definition of
he will literally do whatever it is. And historically, it's been, it's looked like just working super
hard and cranking out like a bunch of work. But as soon as it became, like, we needed to like,
be funny on video, he just went super hard. I didn't even think about it. I didn't even like
question it. Didn't ask questions about like, he didn't like clarify what this makes it. He just
went way harder than I expected. Because again, he's been doing this for so long. He was again,
at that point where, yeah, we'll all just do literally anything. If it seems like it can work,
like, whoa, we'll take a shot. Yeah. And it's cool to get to express that part of himself.
And I feel like you guys have a lot of fun. And it is kind of like, it's corny and basic. But like,
yeah, at the end of the day, like the journey, you have to enjoy it. Like you do. But otherwise,
when you lose motivation, you're going to give up and it's all going to be for nothing. And that's
a tragedy. Yeah, I will say it's all very, very fun. I think we talked about how intense all this
and some of the painful parts of it. But there's, to me, there's really nothing more fun in my life
than been working on all this. It's just like, we do have a lot, a lot of fun every single day.
The frustrations we feel are things that feel worth it. Like I'm frustrated because
our prod isn't good enough or like we haven't found the right way to talk to our customers or
like we haven't thought about the right features. Those are great frustrations. Like they don't
like kill you over time. The frustrations a lot of people run into is like, my boss is an idiot or
like we're using a stupid we're using Jira and it sucks every and I want to kill myself every
time in one minute. Like all those like micro frustrations you find, like that is what really
kills your motivation over time. The frustrations I think we have are good ones to have. They feel
healthy. Yeah, I totally agree as somebody who has spent their entire career frustrated. I totally
agree. Career entire life frustrated. My entire life frustrated. Yeah. Okay, well, that's really good.
That was great. Do you think it was better than me and Adam's episode?
For like the stuff I wanted to hear reflected in the world. Oh yeah, I qualify it. She thinks it's
better. She thinks it's better. Adam says yes. Adam says it is. It is better. I don't know.
We'll see. We'll see like what the people say. We'll see what shorts we attract out of this.
All right, cool. Thank you for joining and have a good day. I'll see you in the other room in a second.
All right. Bye. Bye.